---
layout: post
pid: anopheles
hidden: true
author: hacfordpalmer
link: none
title: "New amplicon sequencing assay for <em>Anopheles stephensi </em>"
date: 2023-04-05
brief:  The malaria vector <em>Anopheles stephensi</em> has invaded and established itself in the Horn of Africa, and more recently Nigeria. The expansion of this vector poses a significant threat to malaria control and elimination efforts. Molecular methods are urgently needed to assist surveillance activities, including for the detection of insecticide resistance mutations. Work performed by Holly et al, presents a next-generation amplicon-sequencing approach, for high-throughput monitoring of insecticide resistance genes, species identification and characterization of genetic diversity in <em>An. stephensi</em>. Our work presents a reliable, cost-effective strategy using amplicon-sequencing to monitor known insecticide resistance mutations, with the potential to identify new genetic variants, to assist in the high-throughput surveillance of insecticide resistance in <em>An. stephensi</em> populations.
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
---
Since its first detection in 2012 in Djibouti, <em>Anopheles stephensi</em> has invaded and established in the Horn of Africa, and more recently Nigeria. The expansion of this vector poses a significant threat to malaria control and elimination efforts. Integrated vector management is the primary strategy used to interrupt disease transmission; however, growing insecticide resistance is threatening to reverse gains in global malaria control. We present a next-generation amplicon-sequencing approach, for high-throughput monitoring of insecticide resistance genes (ace1, GSTe2, vgsc and rdl), species identification and characterization of genetic diversity (its2 and cox1) in <em>An. stephensi</em>. Ninety-five <em>An. stephensi</em> mosquitoes, collected in Ethiopia, were screened, identifying 104 SNPs, including the knock-down mutation L958F (L1014F in Musca domestica), and for the first time in this vector species, the A296S substitution (A301S in Drosophila melanogaster) in the rdl locus. Two other amino acid substitutions (ace1-N177D, GSTe2-V189L) were also identified but have not been previously implicated in insecticide resistance. Genetic diversity in the mitochondrial cox1 gene revealed shared haplotypes between Ethiopian <em>An. stephensi</em> with samples from Pakistan, Sudan, and Djibouti. Overall, we present a reliable, cost-effective strategy using amplicon-sequencing to monitor known insecticide resistance mutations, with the potential to identify new genetic variants, to assist in the high-throughput surveillance of insecticide resistance in <em>An. stephensi</em> populations.
<!--more-->