---
layout: post
pid: wellbeing
author: jthorpe
link: none
hidden: false
brief: COVID-19 has reinforced the importance of staff and personal wellbeing. Laboratory staff work predominantly onsite, and due to the nature of their work, bioinformaticians can work from home. The LSHTM group has a workplace lunch every Friday at the end of the month, to gather the entire team (or as much as possible) and just enjoy each other's company with strictly no work talk allowed! This month we went to Phoenix Palace, which has great food. We look forward to the next team lunch day next month and welcoming new additions to the team.
---

Whether we work, go to school, or play sports, we have all been a part of a team at some point. Some of these teams may have been fun, effective, and successful, while others were stressful, ineffective, or taxing. While many teams work well together, true success comes from being on a cohesive team. Increased team cohesion in the workplace has resulted in increased success, work satisfaction, team member self-esteem, and decreased anxiety. Due to COVID, the team finds itself working from home more often, which of course has its benefits but also has its drawbacks, the main one being the fact that the team does not see each other as much as it once did, and new people that join the team don't get the same integration options as there were before the pandemic. To rectify this, the team has organised a new plan for 2023, a workplace lunch every Friday at the end of the month, to gather the entire team (or as much as possible) and just enjoy each other's company with strictly no work talk allowed! Hopefully, as our team says goodbye to some and hello to a few others, the team can remain as cohesive as it is now throughout the coming year. The event itself was, of course, a resounding success with everyone that took part enjoying it, and this month we would like to thank Phoenix Palace for accommodating us with great food, and we look forward to the next team lunch day next month with hopefully the new additions to the team coming along as well.