---
layout: post
pid: garnham
hidden: true
author: jthorpe
link: none
brief:  Dr. Daniel Ward is awarded the LSHTM Garnham PhD prize 
---

The Garnham prize is a prestigious award that recognizes the best overall PhD thesis submitted within the entire school for the academic year. It is named after Professor Cyril Garnham, who was one of the UK's foremost parasitologists in the 20th century, renowned for his outstanding achievements as both a laboratory scientist and a field worker in the tropics. We are thrilled to announce that this year's winner of the Garnham prize is Dr. Daniel Ward, one of our own esteemed colleagues. We would like to extend our heartfelt congratulations to Dan for this incredible achievement. His thesis was truly exceptional, and this award is a testament to the exceptional work he put into his research. Throughout his PhD studies, Dan has demonstrated exceptional talent, dedication, and expertise in his chosen field of study. His research stands out for its rigorous scientific methodology and innovative approaches, which have made significant contributions to his respective field. Dan's work has advanced our understanding of the underlying mechanisms of his research area, and has opened up new avenues of research towards the development of effective solutions. It is truly an honor to have Dan as a member of our academic community, and we are proud to see him receive this well-deserved recognition for his outstanding achievements. We have no doubt that Dan's future endeavors will continue to make important contributions to the field of infectious diseases and beyond. Once again, congratulations to Dr. Daniel Ward on this remarkable accomplishment!