---
layout: post
pid: test1
author: jthorpe
brief: Whether we work, go to school, or play sports, we have all been a part of a team at some point. Some of these teams may have been fun, effective, and successful while others were stressful, ineffective, or taxing. While many teams work well together, true success comes from being on a cohesive team. Increased team cohesion in the workplace has resulted in increased success, work satisfaction, team member self-esteem, and decreased anxiety.
---

Whether we work, go to school, or play sports, we have all been a part of a team at some point. Some of these teams may have been fun, effective, and successful while others were stressful, ineffective, or taxing. While many teams work well together, true success comes from being on a cohesive team. Increased team cohesion in the workplace has resulted in increased success, work satisfaction, team member self-esteem, and decreased anxiety.

Due to COVID the team finds itself working from home more often, which ofcourse has its benefits but also has its drawbacks, the main one being the fact that the team does not see each other as much as it once did, and new people that join the team dont get the same integration options as there was before the pandemic.

To rectify this the team has organised a new plan for 2023, a work place lunch every friday at the end of the month, to gather the entire team (or as much as possible) and just enjoy each others company with strictly no work talk allowed! Hopefully as our team says goodbye to some and hello to a few others, the team can remain as cohesive as it is now throughout the coming year.

The event itself was ofcourse a resounding success with everyone that took part enjoying it and this month we would like to thank Pheonix Palace for accomodating us with great food and we look forward to the next team lunch day next month with hopefully the new additions to the team coming along as well.
